### Machine learning: what and why?
1. The deluge of data calls for automated methods of data analysis, which is what machine learning provides.
2. In particular, we define machine learning as a set of methods that can automatically detect patterns in data, and then use the uncovered patterns to predict future data, or to perform other kinds of decision making under uncertainty (such as planning how to collect more data!).
3. This books adopts the view that the best way to solve such problems is to use the tools of probability theory. Probability theory can be applied to any problem involving uncertainty. 
4. In machine learning, uncertainty comes in many forms: what is the best prediction about the future given some past data? what is the best model to explain some data? what measurement should I perform next? etc. The probabilistic approach to machine learning is closely related to the field of statistics, but differs slightly in terms of its emphasis and terminology

### Types of machine learning
1. Machine learning is usually divided into two main types. In the predictive or supervised learning approach, the goal is to learn a mapping from inputs x to outputs y, given a labeled set of input-output pairs D = {(xi, yi)} where i=1 to N. Here D is called the training set, and N is the number of training examples.
2. In the simplest setting, each training input xi is a D-dimensional vector of numbers, representing, say, the height and weight of a person. These are called features, attributes or covariates. In general, however, xi could be a complex structured object, such as an image, a sentence, an email message, a time series, a molecular shape, a graph, etc. Similarly the form of the output or response variable can in principle be anything, but most methods assume that yi is a categorical or nominal variable from some finite set,
yi ∈ {1,...,C} (such as male or female), or that yi is a real-valued scalar (such as income level). When yi is categorical, the problem is known as classification or pattern recognition, and when yi is real-valued, the problem is known as regression. Another variant, known as ordinal regression, occurs where label space Y has some natural ordering, such as grades A–F.
3. The second main type of machine learning is the descriptive or unsupervised learning approach. Here we are only given inputs, D = {xi}N i=1, and the goal is to find “interesting patterns” in the data. This is sometimes called knowledge discovery. This is a much less
well-defined problem, since we are not told what kinds of patterns to look for, and there is no obvious error metric to use (unlike supervised learning, where we can compare our prediction of y for a given x to the observed value).
4. There is a third type of machine learning, known as reinforcement learning, which is somewhat less commonly used. This is useful for learning how to act or behave when given occasional reward or punishment signals. (For example, consider how a baby learns to walk.)
Unfortunately, RL is beyond the scope of this book, although we do discuss decision theory
